# 1.1.3 Headers (like this one)
Headers are large pieces of text used to provide a visual hierarchy and organize content. Enough of the web design jargon, let's get to actually making headers.

There are 6 different types of headers ranging in size.

# \<h1> Header

The \<h1> header is the largest type of the six headers. It is often used for a title at the start of a web page. I reccomend using smaller headers for other purposes to help maintain the visual hierarchy.

## \<h2> Header

The \<h2> header is the second largest header. It can be used for subtitles and categories. Can you guess the rest of the headers?

### \<h3> header

The larger the number after the h, the smaller it is.

#### \<h4>

##### \<h5>

###### \<h6>

**I do not reccomend using headers smaller than h3 due to the fact that they are smaller than the actual text. However, the examples shown in the markdown are not identical to HTML.**

## How should I use these headers?

Prepare for a lot of redundancy. Always use the h1 for the title of your document. h2 can be used for major categories of your webpage or a subtitle. h3 can be used for smaller categories. And h4 and smaller are, again, very small to be used in documents.

You should always use them like nesting dolls, not skipping any headers. This is to create a visual hierarchy, and I'll finally explain the meaning. It's the arrangement and size of elements to show different levels of importance. The entire document is much more important than a small category, and usually that is reflected with big text.

There is another check for you to do. It will be slightly more complicated this time.