# 1.1 Introduction to HTML

**Please read this entire file.**

## What is HTML?
HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) is code to build the layout and structure of a webpage. HTML uses elements which are parts of the website with special attributes and the ability to contain other element. Elements are written using tags like `<span id="example">this</span>` which contain the type of element (span), the text/other elements inside it ("this"), and attributes that modify the behavior of the element (id="example").

shh i just copied this from the readme

## What do I do if I need help with HTML?

There are many resources online that can help you with or document the different aspects of HTML. Simply googling your issue can help you find a solution for it. I reccomend W3Schools or Mozilla Web Docs for reviewing things you learned.

## Basics of Tags

Tags have multiple parts to them. To demonstrate the different parts of a tag, take the example tag `<p id="example">Example Code</p>`.

### \<p>

This represents the type of the element. In this example, the type of the element is p, or a paragraph. Due to this being a paragraph, it gains special formatting options: an indent and space between it and other elements.

### id="example"

This is called a attribute. The part before the = is the type of attribute (id) and the part after is its value ("example"). Some attributes do not require a value. An element can have any number of attributes including zero attributes. Attributes can change the behavior of elements, add special events to them, give specifications for other programming languages like CSS to use (like id) or store data within.

### \</p>

This is the closing tag. Closing tags always start with a / before the type. They do not require you to repeat any attributes. They end the element and any content after this will not be affected by the tag. You can put text and other elements inside of the two tags. Some elements do not have a closing tag as there is no way for elements to be nested inside of them like images.

## How do I create and code an HTML website?

You do not have to download anything to start making a website. Your computer has HTML built into it, so you can simply just create a file with the .html file extension. You can use Notepad to edit your file, however it is highly unreccomended because it is not intended for coding and is lackluster in the features other editors have and it is easy to make mistakes. You can download many different editors to help you create websites, including text highlighting, QoL features, and more. VSCode is a powerful editor that lets you make code very quickly using many different keyboard shortcuts. It can be downloaded [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/download) or be used in the browser [here](https://vscode.dev).

To view your website, go to file:///c:/ in your browser and navigate to the folder you stored your HTML file in. Click on the file to go to it. When you edit the code, you must refresh the page in order to view your changes. You can use Inspect Element to make changes to the website without editing the code.

In the next lesson we will build our first website.