# 1.1.4 Basic Formatting Tags

**This lesson does not have a check. Please create one if you know JavaScript.**

These are some formatting options that you can normally find in most documents.

**I do not reccomend using these when you learn CSS as it provides much better alternatives to these.**

## **Bold:** \<strong>
The tag \<strong> is used for **bold** text. The CSS equivalent of this is `font-weight: bold;`. This has a 700 font weight compared to the 400 of normal. Most popular fonts have built in bold types, but sometimes the browser has to generate one for you.

## *Italic*: \<i> **OR** \<em>
These two tags both provide an italic formatting to text inside of them. Despite these two being the same visually, they are used for two different purposes: \<i> is used for text that is set off from the rest while \<em> is used to give emphasis to text. Some developers use this instead of CSS due to these different meanings, but if you want a CSS equivalent, it is `font-style: italic;`. Credit to Mozilla Web Docs for telling me the difference between these two because I genuinely didn't know. Similarly to bold, most popular fonts have a built in italic but sometimes the browser must generate one.

## <u>Underline</u>: \<u>
I actually had to use this tage for the header because Markdown has no built in way for creating underlines. It is highly reccomended to use CSS for this (`text-decoration: underline`).

## <mark>Highlight</mark>: \<mark>
The \<mark> tag is used to highlight text. Note that there is no indication of this tag in most screen readers. We can fix this with some [CSS magic from Mozilla Web Docs.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/mark#accessibility_concerns) The CSS equivalent is `background-color: yellow;`.

**This lesson does not have a check. Please create one if you know JavaScript.**
