# 1.1.2 Building your first website

## Step 1: Creating the file

Create an HTML file and remember where you put it so you can go to the file page later. Go to the file page. Right now the website will be empty but that's because you haven't put in any code right now. The HTML homepage is named index.html. Naming your file this will make it the default file when you go to the directory.

## Step 2: Adding boilerplate code

"Boilerplate" refers to a template that is used by developers when starting new projects. There are many different boilerplates for HTML, ranging from simple to hundreds of lines of code. However, every HTML document has the same 9 lines of code: 

```

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        ...
    </head>
    <body>
        ...
    </body>
</html>

```

These components are **very** important in an HTML document and are required for information to be displayed. Below is more detail about the head and body.

### The head

The head of a document contains information about the metadata of the document such as the title and icon and links to external documents. It is highly unreccomended to put text in here as it is conventionally only used for these two purposes.

### The body

The body is where you put the actual content of your HTML website. This includes the elements and text of your website. Elements will appear in the same order as you place them in your code, but beware, some elements will appear next to eachother. To fix this, use the \<br> tag to create a break in between the two elements.

## Step 3: Actually coding

Now you are ready to write some code. Inside of the body, you can put tags and place text inside of them. Here are some tags to use:

- Title: \<h1>text</h1\> (We will go more in depth into headers later.)
- Paragraph: \<p>text</p\>
- **Bold text**: \<strong>text</strong\>

Take some time to mess around in your document and experiment with these three tags. When you are ready you can complete the first interactive check.